The Attendance Register is an Activity Module that calculate the time spent
by participants in a single Course or a group of Courses (dependng on Attendance
Mode setting).
It actually does not have any "activity" to do, but extends standard Moodle Logging
and Statistics, introducing the "time spent on Course" concept.


ONLINE SESSIONS
Time spent online is calculated in Sessions.
Sessions are somehow "guessed" using Moodle Log entries of the User referring
the Courses tracked by the Register.
When between two consecutive Log entries elapse less than the Session Timeout,
the User is considered to be continuously working online.
When longer than Session Timeout elapse (there could be days between two visits)
the User is considered to have logged out after ONE HALF the Session Timeout
after the first Log entry, and than logged
in again at the second.


SESSION TIMEOUT
Session Timeout may be configured.
Default is 30 mins. This is an average value usually good, even if overestimates
a little the session's duration.
If configured too short, real long sessions of work will break in many shorter
sessions.
On the contrary, if the value is too long it will highly overestimate the sessions.


ONLINE SESSIONS CALCULATION
Online Sessions are batch-calculated by a cron task, so they appear with a little
delay.
Also, an online Session is not created until the User is still logged in (i.e.
less Session Timeout since the last recorded activity).


OFFLINE SESSIONS
"Offline" work sessions self-certification may be optionally enabled.
If this feature is enable, when a tracked user enter the Register a he/she also
have a form to enter a new Session of work.
This new Session will be marked "offline". The duration is added to the time
grand-total and online/offline subtotals are calculated.
The user may also add an additional Comment (optionally enabled, optionally
mandatory :) ) and select a Course (this is meaningful only if the Register tracks
multiple Courses - see below).

Offline Sessions time must obey these rules:
a) May not overlap any existing Session, either online or offline nor current
   online session
b) May not be in the future
c) Must be less than a given number of days ago ("Days back" setting)
d) Must be shorted than 12 hours (!)

Offline Sessions may be always deleted by the owner, later.

Offline work self-certification may be usefull if "bureaucracy" requires the
Student to log every off-classroom activity, including but not limited to online
(for example, some UE funded courses).
If bureaucracy needs a paper log too ;) a printable version is also available (see
below)

Note 1: Adding Offline Sessions is NOT allowed when another user (Admin) is "Logged
in as..." the tracked User.
Note 2: [since rel.2.2.1] Adding Offile Sessions for another user is allowed only with
the mod/attendanceregister:addotherofflinesess capability (Denied by default)


TRACKED COURSES
Depending on the Attendance Tracking Mode setting, a Register instance will track
activities in:
a) "This Course only": only current Course (the Course the Register is in)
b) "All Courses in the same Category": the current Course AND all other Courses
   directly in the SAME Category (if a hierarchy of category exists, Courses in
   parent, sibling or child Categories are NOT tracked).
c) "All Courses linked by Course meta link": (this is the pre 2.0 Meta-Course)
   the current Course and all courses  that have a Meta-link with this Course


TRACKED USERS
The Register do not record activity of all Users in the tracked Courses.
Only Users with 'mod/attendanceregister:tracked' Capability in the Course context
will be tracked.
By default only Students have this Capability.


STUDENT VIEW
When a Student (actually: any User with "mod/attendanceregister:tracked"
and "mod/attendanceregister:viewownregister" Capabilities and without
"mod/attendanceregister:viewotherregisters") view the Register, he/she may see
only his own Sessions and, if enabled, the Offline Session input form.


TEACHER/ADMIN VIEW
When a Teacher or an Administrator (actually: any User with
"mod/attendanceregister:viewotherregisters" Capability) view the Register, he/she
see the list of tracked Users (usually Students) with calculated total Session time.
If he clicks on a User, enters the User's Sessions detailed view (the same
the User himself see), except for the Offline Session input form.


FORCE RECALCULATION
Admins and Teacher (actually: Users with "mod/attendanceregister:recalcsessions"
Capability) may force online Session Recalculation.
This is normally not needed as Sessions and totals are calculated periodically by
the Cron.
It is also a time and machine-load expensive operation, expecially for big Courses,
so AVOID FORCE RECALCULATING SESSIONS.
Recalculating Sessions is only needed when "Attendance Mode" or "Session Timeout"
settings changes, as they influence the way Offline Sessions are estimated.

Force Recalculating DO NOT affect Offline Sessions.

Before rel.2.2.1, if older Log entries are deleted (as in many big sites),
force-recalculating loose older Sessions.
Since rel.2.2.1 force-recalculation will never delete (nor recalculate) Sessions
older than the oldest Log Entry of the User.

Since rel.2.2.1, Session recalculation may be scheduled for execution by the next
cron, instead of executing immediately.
This could be better for very crowded Courses.
Note: recalculation is automatically scheduled when you change Session Timeout
setting of the Register instance.


PRINTABLE VERSION
Printable versions are special version of Users list and User's detail pages,
formatted for printing.
Also, some data shortened in standard view is fully shown in printable version.
Please also note that buttons disappear when printed :)

CAPABILITIES
This Activity Module defines these custom Capabilities:
a) mod/attendanceregister:tracked
   Default: Allow for Students only
   Determine if the User's activity will be tracked by the Register
b) mod/attendanceregister:viewownregister
   Default: Allow for all roles
   Allow the User to view his/her own calculated Sessions
c) mod/attendanceregister:viewotherregisters
   Default: Allow for Teachers and Admins
   Allow to view other User's Sessions and the list of tracked Users
d) mod/attendanceregister:addownofflinesess
   Default: Allow for all roles
   Determine if the User may insert his/her own Offline Sessions.
   Note that adding Offline Sessions is explicitely disallowed when "Logged in
   as..." another User
e) mod/attendanceregister:addownofflinesess
   Default: Allow for Students
   Allow deleting an Offline Session he/she previously entered.
f) mod/attendanceregister:deleteotherofflinesess
   Default: Disabled for all
   Allow deleting an Offline Session of another User
   ("mod/attendanceregister:viewotherregisters" is also needed, to view the
   other's session before deleting it)
g) mod/attendanceregister:recalcsessions
   Default: Allow for Teachers and Admins
   Allow to force-Recalculate online Sessions.
   If a User may view other's Sessions ("mod/attendanceregister:viewotherregisters")
   may recalculate for all Users, otherwise may recalculate only his/her own
   sessions.
h) mod/attendanceregister:addotherofflinesess [since rel.2.2.1]
   Default: Disabled for all
   Allow submitting an Offline Session for another User
   ("mod/attendanceregister:viewotherregisters" is also needed, to view the
   other's session before deleting it)